# Course Outline

## Learner Profile

This course is for users of big data, Azure Log Analytics, Azure Insights, and other platforms who wish to query their data repositories in Microsoft’s Kusto Query Language (KQL).

## Learner Prerequisites

Viewers of this course should have taken the first course in the series and have an understanding of the query interface to be used in this course. In addition, a familiarity with Azure in general is helpful.
It’s also recommended learners have watched the previous courses in this learning path in order to understand the user interface as well as fundamentals of the Kusto Query Language.

## Storyline

In this course students will learn a set of scalar operators that will make the data they generate from their queries easier to read.

## Short Description

In this course you'll learn a set of scalar operators designed to make your query results nicely formatted and easy to read. Using these you can create output more suitable to business users.

## Long Description

The Kusto Query Language allows you to harvest vast amounts of data. The data though is not always easy to read. This course covers a set of scalar operators designed to make the output neater and easier to read. This will include operators to perform date/time calculations and format the results nicely. Next, we’ll see how to perform logic branching, making decisions based on data. Then we’ll see how to work with string data, formatting and dissecting it. Finally, we’ll see how to work with columns, expanding one column into multiple.

---

## Module 1	Course Overview - 90 Seconds

You will need to narrate a very brief informational course overview toward the end of course production in preparation for publication. Overviews are used to market courses in front of the paywall and provide an easy way for learners to quickly determine whether a course is right for them.

Note there are no demos or other files for "Module 1".

---

## Module 2 - Introduction - 3 minutes

### 2.01 - Introduction - 3 minutes

This is the introduction to the course. It is done entirely in PowerPoint. See the associated slide deck for notes.

---

## Module 3 - Basic Scalar Operators - 9 minutes

## Module 3.01 - Sort - 3 minutes

The sort operator can be used to organize your output into order based on the values in one or more columns.

## Module 3.02 - Ago - 3 minutes

Ago is used to calculate a relative date based on the current date. You’ll see how to calculate past dates for use in your queries.

## Module 3.03 - Now - 3 minutes

The now operator is very simple, it returns the current date. It will be a valuable operator when used with date/time math.

---

## Module 4 - Working with Dates and Times - 16 minutes

### 4.01 - Timespan Arithmetic and the DateTime Function - 5 minutes

In this section we’ll see how to perform date and time math within KQL. Within this we’ll see how to use the DateTime function to convert text dates to the Kusto datetime data type.

### 4.02 - StartOf... - 4 minutes

When authoring queries, it can be useful to determine the beginning of a time period dynamically. You want to get data from the start of the current month, current year and more. Kusto contains a series of “StartOf…” operators we’ll see how to use in this section.

### 4.03 - EndOf... - 4 minutes

Similar to the StartOf… operators, Kusto has similar operators for determining the end of a time period. This section will explore the use of the various “EndOf…” operators.

### 4.04 - Between - 3 minutes

In query languages it is common to see if a date lies in a specific range. That’s where the between operator comes in, and we’ll see some examples of its use in this section.

---

## Module 5 - Formatting Dates and Times - 9 minutes

### 5.01 - Format_DateTime / Format_Timespan - 6 minutes

As you’ve seen throughout these courses, the date/time column data returned by your Kusto queries isn’t the most readable. Kusto includes a couple of operators, format_datetime and format_timespan, that allow you to produce much nicer formatting of your date/time data.

### 5.02 - DateTime_Part - 3 minutes

There are times when you don’t need a complete date, but just part of a date. For example, displaying only a month and year. The datetime_part operator lets you do just that, and we’ll see how to use it in this section.

---

## Module 6 - Logic Branching - 11 minutes

### 6.01 - IIF - 3 minutes

If/Then statements are one of the basics of programming languages. Kusto implements these through the iif operator, allowing you implement logic based on values in your query data.

### 6.02 - Case - 3 minutes

Iif is nice, but what if you need more than just two output options? That’s where the case operator comes in, allowing you to choose one of multiple outputs based on the input. We’ll see how to use it in this section.

### 6.03 - IsEmpty / IsNull - 5 minutes

When implementing logic, such as in an iif or case, you need to determine if a column has data or not. The isempty and isnull operators allow you to test for empty data in a column.

---

## Module 7 - Working with Strings - 13 minutes

### 7.01 - StrCat - 5 minutes

We saw strcat briefly in the previous course in this Kusto learning path. In this section we’ll take a deeper look at the operator used to create a composite string from multiple parts.

### 7.02 - Split - 5 minutes

In Azure data clusters, large strings are often stored in columns. It’s a common need to break these strings into smaller pieces. That’s where the split operator comes in, and you’ll see how to use it here.

### 7.03 - Contains and In - 3 minutes

In previous courses we saw how to use contains and in with strings. It has a few useful variants we’ll look at in this section.

---

## Module 8 - Working with Columns - 12 minutes

### 8.01 - Parse - 4 minutes

Parse is similar to split, but while split looks for a character, parse splits based on multiple text strings in the column to product one or more new columns in your query. The examples you’ll see in this section will demonstrate how to use it.

### 8.02 - Extract - 3 minutes

Extract is similar to split, but where split separates a string based on a character, extract pulls data from a string based on a regular expression. You’ll see how to use it in this section.

### 8.03 - Parse_JSON - 5 minutes

In Azure Data Clusters, you’ll frequently find data stored in a column in JSON format. You could of course use tools like parse or split to try and extract it, but Kusto provides a much easier way, the parse_json operator. That’s the subject of this section.

---

## Module 9 - Conclusion - 5 minutes

### 9.01 - Conclusion - 5 minutes

You'll find most of the notes for the conclusion in the slide deck.

In this section, you will see a demo, "putting it all together", which combines many of the code elements found in this course.

---

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.
Hi kkkkk