# Course Overview

This file is a general outline of the course. It is meant as a guideline for the contents of each module, as well as rough target times for each module. It also contains links to the individual files used as sources for each module.

---

## Module 1	Course Overview - 90 Seconds

You will need to narrate a very brief informational course overview toward the end of course production in preparation for publication. Overviews are used to market courses in front of the paywall and provide an easy way for learners to quickly determine whether a course is right for them.

Note there are no demos or other files for "Module 1".

---

##	Module 2 - Introduction -	3 mins

In this module you’ll get an introduction to the 80% of KQL commands you’ll need to write useful queries using the Kusto Query Language.

The information for this module will come from the Slides PowerPoint file.

---

## Module 3 – Searching for Data - 14 Mins

### Search Operator - 8 mins

This module will show how the Search operator can be used to find data across multiple tables in your data sources.

For more info, see [03.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Search.md](03.01_Search/03.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Search.md)

### Where Operator - 6 mins

The Where operator is one of the most used operators in KQL, and in this module you’ll see why as we use it to limit the output of our queries.

For more info, see [03.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Where.md](./03.02_Where/03.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Where.md)

---

##	Module 4 – Summarizing Data	- 11 Mins

### Take Operator - 3 mins

Take is an excellent operator to use during query development. It will randomly grab a certain number of rows from the output, allowing you to spot check your work, as you’ll see in this module.

For more info, see [04.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Take.md](04.01_Take/04.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Take.md)

### Count Operator - 3 mins

How many? It’s one of the most often asked question when writing queries. How many rows in the output? How many computers have low disk space? In this module we’ll see how the KQL Count operator is used to answer the popular “how many” questions.

For more info, see [04.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Count.md](04.02_Count/04.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Count.md)

### Summarize Operator - 5 mins

The flip side of the “how many” question is “how much”? How much disk space do we have free? What is the total CPU utilization? The Summarize operator is used to answer these kinds of questions, as you’ll see in this module.

For more info, see [04.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Summarize.md](04.03_Summarize/04.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Summarize.md)

---

##	Module 5 – Adding New Columns -	13 Mins

### Extend Operator - 4 mins

Creating calculated columns is a common need in any query language. In this module we’ll create new calculated values using the Kusto Extend operator.

For more info, see [05.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Extend.md](05.01_Extend/05.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Extend.md)

### Project Operator - 5 mins

When working with a table, you seldom need to use all its columns. Limiting the number of columns you are working with can speed your queries and make them easier to use. In this module we’ll see how to use the Project operator to keep our column list to a manageable level.

For more info, see [05.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Project.md](05.02_Project/05.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Project.md)

### Variants of Project - 4 mins

As useful as the Project operator is, it doesn’t always meet every need when working with columns. There are four variants of the Project operator, and we’ll see those in action in this module.

For more info, see [05.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Variants_Of_Project.md](05.03_Variants_of_Project/05.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Variants_Of_Project.md)

---

##	Module 6 – Useful Operators	- 10 Mins

### Distinct Operator - 5 mins

When using tools like Project to limit the number of columns, you can often wind up with duplicated data. In this module you’ll see how to use the Distinct operator to remove any duplicated data from your output.

For more info, see [06.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Distinct.md](06.01_Distinct/06.01.00_Fun_With_KQL_Distinct.md)

### Top Operator - 3 mins

Top 10 lists are popular across today’s internet. Using the Top operator, you can create your own lists using KQL. Best of all, you aren’t limited to 10 items as you’ll see in this module.

For more info, see [06.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Top.md](06.02_Top/06.02.00_Fun_With_KQL_Top.md)

### Print Operator - 2 mins

The Print operator is the simplest one in the Kusto Query Language. It can be a useful debugging tool, as will be demonstrated in this module.

For more info, see [06.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Print.md](06.03_Print/06.03.00_Fun_With_KQL_Print.md)

---

#	Module 7 – Conclusion	3 Mins

With this module you’ve now seen 80% of the operators you’ll need to author effective queries in KQL. We’ll do a quick recap then talk about next steps in your journey to learn more about the Kusto Query Language.

---

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.
