## Course Overview

## Module 1 - Course Overview (Also known as the Voice Over)

You will need to narrate a very brief informational course overview toward the end of course production in preparation for publication. Overviews are used to market courses in front of the paywall and provide an easy way for learners to quickly determine whether a course is right for them.

Target Length: 60-90 sec

## Module 2 - Introduction to the Kusto Query Language

Students will learn about the basics of the Kusto Query Language. Topics Include:
•	Who should be using KQL?
•	What is the purpose of KQL?
•	Where should KQL be used?	

Target Length: 10 mins

## Module 3 - Terms and Definitions Used With KQL

In this module, students will learn about the naming used with KQL objects. This will be contrasted with the familiar terms used with SQL. Included in this list will be:
•	Table Groups
•	Tables
•	Columns

In addition, we’ll cover the logic behind a KQL query, contrasting it with a SQL query.	

Target Length: 10 mins


## Module 4 - The Log Analytics Demo Environment

In this final module, we’ll see KQL in action! We’ll start with a look at the Log Analytics demo site which will be used for this course. The various components of the interface will be pointed out and examined. Finally, we’ll write our first KQL query.	

Target Length: 25 mins

## Module 5 - Conclusion

This course served to provide a foundation for the future courses in this series. With it you saw how to use the main query interface we’ll be using. In addition to a recap we’ll talk about future steps for learning more about the Kusto Query Language.	

Target Length: 5 mins
