# Module 02 - Clip 02 - Where To Use KQL

## Demo 1 - Azure Data Explorer

**Start on the All Services page**

Normally you could access the services for your Azure instance by going to your All Services page. For example, we could access the data explorer by entering Data Exp... into the filter area and it will limit our list, in this case Azure Data Explorer Clusters is the one we want.

We can get to Log Analytics in a similar path, just enter Log An... into the filter, and we want Log Analytics workspaces.

For these demos though, we want to use the sample data Microsoft provided. To do that we'll use the URLs shown earlier in the course to jump right to them. Let's start with a look at the Azure Data Explorer.

**Fade thru to the ADX.**

https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples

_Have the URL appear on the screen_

Here we are inside Azure Data Explorer, _Highlight the upper left title_, we are connected to a data cluster called help _highlight the help cluster_, which has several databases within it. _Highlight the databases_

You can connect to your own clusters via the Add Cluster button _Highlight the add cluster button_

Through the data pane on the left we can explore the tables and columns in our databases. _Highlight the databases_

In the area at the top right we can enter our kusto query _highlight query area at the top_, the results will appear at the bottom. _Highlight results area_

We'll see an example of running a query in Azure Data Explorer shortly, but for now let's take a look at the next tool, Log Analytics.

## Demo 2 - Log Analytics

The next place we use KQL is the log analytics monitoring tool, and here we've used the URL seen earlier to jump directly into Microsoft's sample data.

 https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Monitoring_Logs/

_Have URL appear on screen_

**Start with the LogManagement folder expanded**

The interface is similar to Azure Data Explorer. Here we are in the Demo cluster that was generated by Microsoft.

Over on the left is the data pane, _Highlight datapane_ where Microsoft created folders _highlight folder_ to organize the various tables. _highlight tables_

**Expand the Alert table**

As with the Azure Data Explorer, we can expand a table to see its columns. _Highlight the columns_

As you might guess, the pane on the upper right is where we enter our Kusto query, _Highlight query area_

And at the bottom is where the result goes. _Highlight result area_

We'll learn more about Log Analytics as we move through this course, for now let's take a peek at the last place where KQL is frequently used.

## Demo 3 - PowerBI

The final tool we'll look at is PowerBI. It is a free tool you can download from Microsoft. Be aware this is the one tool that is Windows only, the other tools can be accessed on other platforms through their web browser.

Here in PowerBI we can access our Azure data cluster by using the Get Data menu. _Point to Get Data_

**Click on Get Data to Expand it**

Then we'll click on the More option. _Highlight More_

In the search box, we can type in Azure Data... to narrow our options.

Now in the list, we can pick Azure Data Explorer. __Point to the option__. Note how it says Kusto at the end, this is your indication you can use KQL in your query.

Click on the option to select it then click Connect at the bottom.

At the top of the dialog you enter the URL to your data cluster. _Highlight it_

In the center, you can enter your KQL query. _Highlight it_

Make sure you expand the Advanced Options **expand it** and be sure the DirectQuery option is selected. _Point to DirectQuery_. Then you can click on OK and start building your report.

## Formatting Guide

The notes in this file are used during the recording of the course. It is not meant to be a word for word script, but rather the talking points used for recording.

Notes in plain text are to be used during the recording.

**Notes in bold are instructions during recording, not to be spoken.**

_Notes in italic will be used during the video editing processing._

KQL doesn't have a predefined code setting in Markdown. Use python as the closest match for multi-line code samples.

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.
