# Module 4 - Clip 4 - Output Pane

## Use this text for the query output pane slide

In the final section we'll look at the query output pane. You'll see how to sort the data, see where key metrics are explained, and how to use the new columns pane to rearrange the output columns, as well as remove columns from the output.

## Main Demo

**Before beginning, create two tabs, and show how you can have multiple query tabs open. Place the Perf query in the first, and the top 100 in the second, but don't run**
```python
Perf

Perf
| where CounterName == "memoryRequestBytes"
| top 1000 by TimeGenerated
```

You can see I have the simple query of Perf. Let's execute it, and focus in on the results pane.

Across the top you can see the warning, "Showing the first 30,000 results". _Highlight it_

Whenever the KQL engine detects a large quantity of rows, more than would be useful, it limits the result to 30,000 rows and lets you know that.

Down on the bottom right, _Point to bottom right_ it shows you how many rows were returned, and which row numbers are currently being displayed.

Next to it is a link, Query Details _Highlight it_. When we click on it, a pop out appears on the right with information about the query such as the CPU time, age and time span of the data, and more. Using this information can help you in query tuning. Let's close the query details window and move on.

Looking to the bottom left, _Highlight it_ we see the query run time. In this case, 8s and 241 milliseconds **or whatever it actually is**.

Next to it is a setting for Display time. Almost all tables have a time generated column, among other dates. These are displayed in UTC time, by default.

We can use the drop down arrow to pop up a small menu **do so** and change to display all dates in local time. **Click on the menu again** there's also an option to pick an alternate time zone if you wish. _Point to it when it pops up_

Let's take a little detour before we get to the last part of our discussion on the output pane. If you look at the top you'll see what is a tab reading New Query 1. _Highlight it_

Next to it is a tab I added, New Query 2 **Click on it** _highlight it_. You can add new tabs by simply clicking the plus button _point to it_ to bring up as many as you need.

Having multiple tabs allows us to compare and contrast different queries, their run times, and so forth.

OK, let's return to the output pane. First, we can change the sort order of the data by clicking on the header next to the column name. _Click on it the time generated_ You can see clicking on it allows me to change the sort order for that data.

We can click on any column, if I do the same thing on the Computer it will sort by the Computer name. _Click it_

On the very right of the column name, faintly visible, are three dots. _Hover over the column header and point to the dots_ If I click on it, it brings up a menu with a list of the values. I can check and uncheck values to filter what is displayed.

I can also change the filter by clicking on the drop down at the very top, picking a different filter option and entering a value in the filter area. _highlight the menu, then point to the filter area_

Next to the filter is another menu icon, the three bars are often referred to as a hamburger menu icon. In it are several options. _Point to each option as its mentioned_

We can pin this column, so the column will remain visible as you scroll left and right.

You can autosize the column, or all the columns, to fit the data in them.

You can group the data by the column, or you can reset all the columns back to the default.

Next, let's look at the column tool on the very right _Point to it before clicking on it_.

Using the check marks, we can hide or unhide columns. Lets hide a few! **Hide the object name and instance name**

I can also group the data. For example, let's grab the Computer name column by clicking and holding down the little domino icon next to the column name, then dragging and dropping it on the Row Groups area.

You can see the output pane has updated to show the computer names. I can click on the arrow beside the column name, and I can see all of the data for just that computer.

I can also get summaries for a group. I'll grab the CounterValue column and drop it into the Values area. _Point out the sums_ You can see on the group level it displays the sum of the counter value, with the individual values still displayed below the group header.

We can also create a pivot table by clicking on the PivotMode at the top. Then we drop the Time Generated column into the Column Labels area at the bottom. The output is now updated to show the computer name on the rows, the dates on the columns, and the values are the sum of the counter value.

Finally, we can setup the data as a chart. Clicking on teh Chart option toward the top _point to it_ then click on the _point to it_ chart options on the right.

When it appears, lets change the Y axis to Counter Value. Then, change split-by to Computer. Finally, let's expand the Chart type, and you can see there are a lot of options. Let's pick Line chart for this example. Our data is now nicely formatted as an easy to view chart. Keep in mind this is sample data from Microsoft, so there's not a lot of variation in it.


## Formatting Guide

The notes in this file are used during the recording of the course. It is not meant to be a word for word script, but rather the talking points used for recording.

Notes in plain text are to be used during the recording.

**Notes in bold are instructions during recording, not to be spoken.**

_Notes in italic will be used during the video editing processing._

KQL doesn't have a predefined code setting in Markdown. Use python as the closest match for multi-line code samples.

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.

