# Module 4 - Clip 3 - First KQL Query

In clip 3 I’ll run the first KQL query, explaining how a very basic query works, and showing some of the controls around running queries such as the time range.

**Start with the contents (main demo) of [04.03-Log-Analytics-Demo-First-KQL-Query.kql](04.03-Log-Analytics-Demo-First-KQL-Query.kql) already populated. In the notes below however we'll include each set of code as we come to it.**

First, let me mention that a comment in KQL begins with two slashes, as you see here. _highlight the line with the comment_

```python
// This is a comment
```

Now let's write our first KQL query, but before we do let's contrast it with a SQL query. For this example, we want to return all rows in the table Perf.

In SQL _highlight the sql command_ you would write SELECT * FROM Perf. This returns all rows and columns.

```python
// To get all rows from the Perf table in SQL, you'd need:
// SELECT * FROM Perf
```

Now lets see how we can do it in KQL. KQL uses the process of biggest to smallest. We start with the most data, and start trimming down until we have the results we want.

In this case we want all of the data in the Perf table, so all we need is the table name. _highlight the table name_

```python
// In KQL, we can simply use:
Perf
```

We can run this in one of two ways. We can click on the Run button _point to it_ or press Shift+Enter _put shift enter keys on screen_. For this course I'll typically use the Shift+Enter method for running queries. So let's run our query. Note that the current query is highlighted in gray, to indicate which query in our script will be executed.

At the bottom you can see the results pane populated with the data in the Perf table. _Highlight output_

Now let's author a slightly more complex query. We want to get 100 rows from the Perf table where the counter name column has a value of free Megabytes, and order those 100 rows by the counter value.

In SQL, we'd author it like you see here _highlight the query_, using a select with a top clause, then a where to get only the free Megabytes, finally an order by to get the data in the correct sequence.

// A bit more complex query
// SELECT TOP 100 * FROM Perf
// WHERE CounterName = "Free Megabytes"
// ORDER BY CounterValue

_Highlight each line in the query below as it's discussed_
Now let's see how to do this in KQL. We'll start with the largest group of data, the Perf table.

We then use the pipe character to take the output of the perf table and pass it into the next operation.

In it, we then reduce the size of our data by applying the where operator, and setting its filter to have a CounterName of Free Megabytes. The pipe character at the end of the line takes this now reduced dataset and passes it into the next operator.

Here we use the top operator to reduce our dataset to 100 rows, and we get those rose based on the CounterValue. By default it takes the 100 rows with the highest values.

Since there is no pipe at the end of this line, and the top statement is complete, the data is then returned to the output pane at the bottom.

```python
Perf |
where CounterName == "Free Megabytes" |
top 100 by CounterValue
```

Kusto syntax is very flexible in structure. In this next example we have the same query, but we've formatted it so the pipe symbol is at the beginning.

```python
// Syntax is flexible - Pipe can be at the start
Perf
| where CounterName == "Free Megabytes"
| top 100 by CounterValue
```

If we want, we can also choose to indent lines. This will be useful later in these courses as we write longer queries.

```python
// We can also choose to indent lines if we wish
Perf
  | where CounterName == "Free Megabytes"
  | top 100 by CounterValue
```

We can even put the entire query on a single line if we want, although at times this can make it harder to read.

```python
// It can also all be on a single line
Perf | where CounterName == "Free Megabytes" | top 100 by CounterValue
```

To help us, the coding pane has intellisense.

```python
// You do have intellisense! (Type out the above query to demonstrate)
```

**Begin writing the query, using the voice explanation in the text. The keywords to type will be in italicized bold.**

We'll start by typing in _**Per**_ and you can see intellisense pops up with tables and keywords that begin with Per. The top line is highlighted in light blue and we'll hit the _**Tab**_ key to place it in the coding pane.

Note when I hit the tab key, Kusto moves to the next lane and places a pipe symbol. It then pops up suggestions that would make sense in this context. The first one is where, so all we need to do is press _**Tab**_ again.

Intellisense now lists column names from the Perf table we can use. As I begin to type in _**Coun**_ it limits the list, we can see CounterName is the second value. We can hit the down arrow once to highlight CounterName and hit tab.

Intellisense now presents a list of syntax that could be used to compare CounterName to a value. We'll type in one equal sign _**=**_, from the list we want the double equal signs.

In Kusto, double equal signs are used for comparison, a single equal sign is used to assign a value.

If we look at the CounterName in the data pane, we see it has a data type of string. _Point to the data type in the data pane._, so we'll wrap the comparison value of Free Megabytes in double quotes.

From here it just continues, as we would continue our query intellisense would be there to assist us.

**As each point is made, underline it with a callout**

Some things to note about KQL syntax. First, KQL is case sensitive, unlike SQL.

The table name, Perf, is not the same as perf in lowercase or all uppercase.

Likewise, column names are also case sensitive. The column CounterName is not the same as countername in all lower or all uppercase. You can always get the right format from the data pane or intellisense.

Commands in KQL are also case sensitive. For example, top in lowercase is the actual command, top in upper, or mixed case won't work.

```python
// KQL is case sensitive, unlike SQL
// Perf is not the same as perf or PERF
// Likewise with column names
// CounterName, not countername or COUNTERNAME

// Commands are also case sensitive
// top works, TOP or Top does not
```

**Bring up a query**
Before we move on let's take a look at the toolbar above the query editing pane. Directly next to the run button is the Time Range. We can click on it **click on it** and it gives us the option to limit the time frame to some common values, or we can use the custom option to enter a specific range. In a later course we'll see how to set the time range within the query.

Next is the Save button, which would normally allow you to save the query to your Azure instance. Because this is a demo site, the option is disabled.

The Share button makes it easy to share the query or the results.

The New Alert Button would normally allow you to create alerts, but this option doesn't work in this demo environment.

The Export option will let you save the results of the query. In the demo environment you can save it to a CSV file, but the options to save to a PowerBI query or Excel are disabled.

Likewise, the PinTo option is disabled as this is a demo environment.

The final option, Format query, will take a query and, as the button says, reformat it. If we take our one line query, you can see it has now been nicely formatted.

## Formatting Guide

The notes in this file are used during the recording of the course. It is not meant to be a word for word script, but rather the talking points used for recording.

Notes in plain text are to be used during the recording.

**Notes in bold are instructions during recording, not to be spoken.**

_Notes in italic will be used during the video editing processing._

KQL doesn't have a predefined code setting in Markdown. Use python as the closest match for multi-line code samples.

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.
