# Module 4 - Clip 1 - Data Pane

Log Analytics will be the main interface we'll use for demonstrating KQL in this course, so it's worth time to take a bit deeper drive into the interface.

For the demos in this module I have switched over to Ubuntu 22.04 to demonstrate that the Azure web interface can be used on many, many environments.

On Ubuntu I'll be using the default Firefox web browser, although we could also install and use Chromium or even Microsoft Edge.

Please note that the functionality you'll see here, especially in regards to the Kusto language, is the same as what you'll find in the Azure Data Explorer.

Let's begin by looking at the data pane. _Highlight data pane_

As you can see, the tables are already organized into table groups, basically folders used to organize the tables into logical groupings. _Point out the folders_

Let's expand the LogManagement group. A table we'll be using a lot is Perf. _Scroll down to Perf_

If we hover over the table name, a dialog pops up. This dialog has information about the table being hovered over, in this case Perf, and includes a description. _Highlight the description_

 If we click on the star icon, _Point to the star_ it will add it to the favorites. Let's scroll back up to the favorites area and expand it.

You can see the Perf table is now found in the favorites area.

Let me call your attention briefly to the Group by: _point to it with arrow_. The selection gives you alternate ways to group the tables.

Next, at the top let's look at the Functions tab. This has prebuilt functions Microsoft provided you can use in your queries. You can also look at the code to learn how to write your own.

Similarly, **Click on Queries tab** if we go to the Queries tab we have a list of queries that Microsoft has built for us, in addition within your own Azure instance you can save your queries.

Let's take a quick look at one, we'll expand _**Applications**_, then pick the _**Function Activity over Time**_. We'll let the dialog pop up, then click on Load to Editor. _Pointer to Load to Editor_

If we execute the query you'll see a nice chart with the count of function requests _point to the total count on the X axis_ broken down by hour of the day. _point to Y axis_

Over these courses we'll learn more about the syntax, for now understand these queries can be used with a minimal amount of KQL knowledge. They can also be used as a learning tool, allowing you to examine queries Microsoft wrote, seeing how they work and modifying them for you own use.

You can also add your own queries within your organizations Azure instance, although because this is a demo environment you can't do it here.

**Proceed to the next demo in [04.02-Log-Analytics-Demo-Help-Menu.md](../KQL-01-Getting-Started/04.02-Log-Analytics-Demo-Help-Menu.md)

## Formatting Guide

The notes in this file are used during the recording of the course. It is not meant to be a word for word script, but rather the talking points used for recording.

Notes in plain text are to be used during the recording.

_**Items in bold italics are to merely stress a keyword or menu option.**_

**Notes in bold are instructions during recording, not to be spoken.**

_Notes in italic will be used during the video editing processing._

KQL doesn't have a predefined code setting in Markdown. Use python as the closest match for multi-line code samples.

## Author Information

### Author

Robert C. Cain | [@ArcaneCode](https://twitter.com/arcanecode) | arcanecode@gmail.com

### Websites

About Me: [http://arcanecode.me](http://arcanecode.me)

Blog: [http://arcanecode.com](http://arcanecode.com)

Github: [http://arcanerepo.com](http://arcanerepo.com)

LinkedIn: [http://arcanecode.in](http://arcanecode.in)

### Copyright Notice

This document is Copyright (c) 2022 Robert C. Cain. All rights reserved.

The code samples herein is for demonstration purposes. No warranty or guarantee is implied or expressly granted.

This document may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author and/or Pluralsight. Information within can be used within your own projects.
